Hello and welcome to Unit testing for unity.
We're in the workshop here.
And in this one we're going to take a look at the character in a basic form.
We're going to have a few different ones we're going to look at.
We'll start with the basics and move on to something more advanced.
Let's take a look at this demo in action.
Inside the unity editor.
We're going to open up unity, open up our sample project.
And then we're going to play one or more scenes related to the topic here.
The scene is going to be the character basic, and I'm going to be talking about Monobehaviour as something
that can or can't be tested, as well as play mode versus edit mode, something that I've mentioned
earlier in the course.
We'll bring it back here and talk about it.
Here we are in the project looking at the character basic.
Let's go ahead and run the scene.
So while most of our workshops we've done already had a pretty boring scene where absolutely nothing
of interest is happening here, we have a little bit more.
When we hit play there, we see a cube white cube that gets made created in the center of the screen.
I can use my arrow keys and move around.
So while admittedly a very simple example here, this is meant to talk about some of the more complex
aspects of testing inside unity.
In the previous scenes, we weren't worried about rendering graphics or taking input.
We did talk in the last workshop about the difference between testing several different dependencies
together.
For example, a method that inside calls a second method that inside calls the third.
Those are dependencies.
Here we're talking about a similar aspect, except every time I want to move my character, I first
ask to listen to Unity's input system, then use Unity's Monobehaviour transform movement.
Right.
So we're we're using several different dependencies there or different classes.
So here I'm able to use the arrow keys to move around.
And that's pretty much it.
But the idea is we're doing a bit more than before.
Let's talk about the implications of testing that.
So up here in the test runner, I have the category set to our character basic, which is great.
Then I can toggle on to see the play mode tests as well as the edit mode tests.
We can see that we've got some of both, but because there's a monobehaviour involved, I'm going to
focus more on the play mode.
Now, in each of the workshops, I've included at least one edit mode test and at least one play mode
test for the scene at hand.
I've done that again here, but depending on what you're actually testing, you want to think, is this
more appropriate for edit mode or is it more appropriate for play mode?
There's an art and a science to how you'd approach that, and how you would design your code to be more
testable.
But a general way to look at it that's relevant for here is that if you're using Monobehaviour functionality,
that sounds more like a play mode test.
The more unity libraries, particularly at runtime, you're using in your production, you want to think
about those being play mode tests.
It's not a hard rule, but that's a good way to start thinking about it.
So let's run our tests here.
I have the play mode and I will run all.
Okay.
It took a couple seconds to run there, but we've got them all.
What actually happens when you're running a play mode test is it creates a brand new empty scene and
runs just one test inside of it, and it destroys that.
And it creates a brand new scene guaranteeing that we have the world space provided by a scene.
But the freshness of a new scene that doesn't have any dependencies or stale info that might influence
the test.
So we like how that's set up.
Now, the things that I'm doing are moving, moving by key code and moving to a particular place.
So let's take a look at this move to test.
Actually, let's take a look at the production code first.
So if I go here and I look at the basic example.
This is the production code.
Let's look at that before I go into the tests.
So here all I do is I create a primitive.
You could imagine also loading a prefab here if you wanted to do that.
But I wanted to slowly get us into all the complexities of runtime and unity.
So I'm not using a prefab here.
I just create a brand new cube from scratch with a line of code.
I give it a name there just for organization sake, and then I add the component of the monobehaviour
that I want to actually test.
Then one of the things that I'm doing is just moving it to the point of 000, and then showing that
value out on the screen.
So let's take a look at the source code here.
Here's character basic.
This extends Monobehaviour.
Now, if you're familiar with unity, you probably use Monobehaviours all the time as a good best practice.
You want to start thinking conscientiously.
When is it appropriate to use a monobehaviour and when can I use something different?
As beginning developers, we create everything as a child of monobehaviour, but with time and experience
you realize there's pros and cons of using monobehaviours.
One of the cons is historically, it was more difficult to test along the way.
Unity provided these playmode tests.
So now we can certainly test Playmode and we can test Monobehaviours.
So that's great, but there's still some drawbacks.
Again, Monobehaviour is going to rely on more systems of unity under the hood.
And when we're trying to test our custom code, we might not be sure where a problem might lie.
Is it our code or is it Unity's code?
So again, there's a few dependencies there.
This is all okay, but it's something you want to think about as you're designing your classes and as
you're designing your tests.
So we've got a movement speed.
We've got a movement type.
This is just the direction of the arrow key that I'm pressing.
Then we use the Unity's update.
Now really let me double check here.
Really.
The update loop here is the only major monobehaviour functionality that I'm using.
The rest of this code doesn't necessarily have to be in a monobehaviour.
I am also using Unity's input system, so that's a second dependency.
So let's see what I do every frame of update.
I call this method here move by input.
I check to see is the user hitting a particular key or keys on the keyboard.
And then I call move by key code down here.
All we do is say, if we're currently moving left, then let's move in a vector for the left direction.
If we're currently moving right and etcetera for up and down.
So this would allow you to move in all four of the directions using the four arrow keys.
So pretty straightforward code.
And if you've created your own custom character before you'd be familiar with setting something like
this up.
Down here, we've got two methods.
One that lets us move to a particular point and one that lets us move by a unit.
So let's say I wanted to move to the right one unit.
I could pass in by one unit by one unit by one unit.
If I want to move directly to a particular point in space, that would be the move to.
So these are not necessarily the only methods you would need in a custom character class, but there's
some pretty common ones.
So we'll end this lesson here with just this as a basic, appropriate working way to test some functionality.
If you want to take a look at the edit mode or the other tests that are here in the play mode, go ahead
and do that.
I'll move on to the next video.
Thanks.